Highlight compatibility requirements for HSTS upgrade (#366)
MikeBishop/dns-alt-svc: draft-ietf-dnsop-svcb-https.md

* Enable SRV-like benefits (e.g. apex delegation, as mentioned above) for HTTP,
  where SRV {{?SRV=RFC2782}} has not been widely adopted
* Provide an HSTS-like indication {{!HSTS=RFC6797}} signaling that the "https"
  scheme should be used instead of "http" for all requests to this origin (see

>   {{hsts}}).

Reviewer: An unqualified "origin" I would tend to treat as meaning "URI origin", but that is scheme-specific.  {{HTTP}} defines an "origin server" that may be closer to what we mean here.

Author: "Origin server" doesn't seem to quite capture this either.  Changed to "host and port".

same restriction to the "port" SvcParam.

The presence of an HTTPS RR for an origin also indicates

> that clients should always connect securely and use the "https" scheme, as

Reviewer: "always" here is something I'm on the fence about.  I don't think it's safe to do a true HSTS-like pinning scheme based solely on an unauthenticated DNS record.  If DNSSEC is in play, then it looks better, but for regular HSTS we get the signal directly from the origin itself, and this is a more indirect mechanism that we may want to only use for the current batch of requests.

Reviewer 2: "always" is wrong.  It's only as long as the HTTPS resource records are within their TTL.

Author: I meant "always" in the sense of "unconditionally", but evidently this is confusing.  Removed.

trigger the redirect behavior.)
Because HTTPS RRs are received over an often insecure channel (DNS),
clients MUST NOT place any more trust in this signal than if they

> had received a 307 redirect over cleartext HTTP.  Where the "http" resource does
> not redirect to the "https" resource or reference the same underlying resource,
> as is commonplace, requests directed to the "http" resource will be processed by
> the "https" resource with potentially unexpected results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
had received a 307 redirect over cleartext HTTP.  

Publishing an HTTPS RR has the potential to have unexpected results 
or a loss in functionality in cases where the "http" resource neither
redirects to the "https" resource nor reference the same underlying resource.
This is because requests directed to the "http" resource will be processed by
the "https" resource.
```

Rewording to be more clear.  I'm also not sure we should talk about "commonplace" 
since there may also be commonplace cases in the other direction.

I'm not sure if we want to give operator guidance.?

Author: I'm not sure the last sentence is a correct description of HTTP redirects.  I would just remove it.

In general, I think this is all extremely obvious, so I don't know how to clarify it.

Reviewer 3: How about this?

```suggestion
had received a 307 redirect over cleartext HTTP.  

Publishing an HTTPS RR has the potential to have unexpected results 
or a loss in functionality in cases where the "http" resource neither
redirects to the "https" resource nor references the same underlying resource.
```

Author: That's fine with me.

trigger the redirect behavior.)

> Because HTTPS RRs are received over an often insecure channel (DNS),

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Because HTTPS RRs are received over an often-insecure channel (DNS),
```

clients MUST NOT place any more trust in this signal than if they

> had received a 307 redirect over cleartext HTTP.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
had received a 307 (Temporary Redirect) over cleartext HTTP.
```

clients MUST NOT place any more trust in this signal than if they
had received a 307 redirect over cleartext HTTP.
If this redirection would result in a loss of functionality (e.g. important
resources or behaviors that are only available when using the "http" origin),

> the operator MUST NOT publish an HTTPS RR.

Reviewer: If I held the pen I would have put more detail in here, but I don't have a particularly strong argument that more detail is clearly required.

Reviewer 2: I would like to see this being more explicit.  If an action that was initiated for an HTTP resource is performed on an HTTPS resource instead, this might have unexpected consequences if the two URLs are not aliases of the same logical resource.

Reviewer 4: IIRC, we've circled and redrawn this line several times.  The breaking point for saying that the resources must be identical is that that HTTP origin might return redirects to the HTTPS origin anyway -- in which case you're *not* finding the same things over HTTPS as over HTTP, but you're winding up at the same resource.  Hence describing it in terms of loss of functionality, rather than identity of resources or responses.

Reviewer 5: The upgrade works by simulating a redirect, so that also lines up nicely: publishing such a record, just like setting HSTS, means you're serving a redirect at the http origin. If you wanted to do that, do that. If you didn't want to do that, don't.

Reviewer 6: Seems like the "need" for this language keeps coming up because we're afraid a domain operator will do something stupid and add the record when a redirect will break their website.  Do we really think anybody will add the record when the redirect is not desired (or at least anybody that has actually read through enough of the RFC to see the redirect happens, which should be roughly a superset of anybody reading whatever statement we put here)? If not, any additional details will just add confusion, so I'd be happy if we just left the current language or simplified it.

Reviewer 6: And by leave the "current language", I'm fine with the text in this change or before.  I'm just against adding more on top of that to try to add any more details on when a redirect would break a domain.

Reviewer 2: @MikeBishop, my objection was to the extreme economy of the phrase "resources or behaviors".  I was just looking for this being a little clearer by making the "behaviors" bit a little more explicit.  Something like,

> Where the HTTP resource does not redirect to the HTTPS resource or reference the same underlying resource, as is commonplace, requests directed to the HTTP resource will be processed by the HTTPS resource with potentially unexpected results.

Reviewer: > Seems like the "need" for this language keeps coming up because we're afraid a domain operator will do something stupid and add the record when a redirect will break their website

I would rather characterize my primary concern as that the description in the document should accurately reflect its technical contents.  We are deviating from what the HTTP protocol specifies, and should clearly document the nature of the deviation.  (Ideally, document the motivation for the deviation as well.)

> which should be roughly a superset of anybody reading whatever statement we put here

Right, which is why I want to make it more visible in the Introduction that there are scenarios where the mechanism is not applicable (see #374 for thoughts on how)

> my objection was to the extreme economy of the phrase "resources or behaviors"

I think that also describes my concerns.

Reviewer 4: @martinthomson, I like that text.

Author: OK, I've incorporated Martin's text.
